hello everyone it's elena and i'm back
with another video and today we're doing
a little q a about my
year abroad here in reagan's work i'm
staying abroad in quotation marks
because i am german
so during my year abroad in germany you
know it's kind of like just going back
to my home country
but it's still technically a year abroad
so i asked you guys for your questions
on instagram and yeah
let's get right into it
[Music]
okay the first question actually comes
from a fellow cambridge youtuber
and she just started law school and if
you guys want to follow her her name is
astrid francisca and i'm going to put
her channel
in the description box below she's such
a queen um
and she's just really amazing and yeah
anyways i'm going to stop fangirling now
and actually answer her question
so she asked will you have to do an
extra year at cambridge to complete the
core law modules
yes i will have to do an extra year at
cambridge so basically i just turned my
three-year law degree into a four-year
degree
by doing this year abroad the second
question also comes from a friend of
mine
um what will you miss most about
cambridge this year well of course you
dan
and also xi jen um dan and cejan you may
have seen them in my cambridge vlogs um
they are two very close friends of mine
and honestly i already missed them
and of course i will miss them this
entire year why did you choose reagan's
work
um so there were a few options that i
had available to me um regensburg was
one of them there was a university in
the netherlands a university in france
and a university in spain i believe and
i chose rigginsburg because i wanted to
study in germany for a while
i am technically not allowed to study in
germany as a normal student i could only
come here as an exchange student
because i do not have the required
qualifications for german universities
because i did my high school diploma
abroad
and it is not recognized as you know
being equivalent to german a levels here
so i technically can't attend a german
university normally
and so this was my one option to at
least study in germany for a year
because otherwise i would
never get that experience will all your
lectures be online
um that's still kind of up in the air um
currently there are some which are
planned to be in person
but they have already said that they are
willing to move to you know a digital
version of the lectures if necessary
there is one which will only take place
if it's possible to do it in person
so we'll see but most of them will be on
zoom
would you go back home during online
school or stay in your country or study
i have been thinking about that now
obviously i would be staying in the same
country because germany is my home
country
um but if everything did go digital i
think there's a real chance that i would
go home
simply because i could do everything
from home that i could do from here but
the difference is
at home i at least have my mom and her
boyfriend to talk to
and if everything goes digital i
honestly have no idea how i would make a
single friend
like i struggle to make friends you know
even without code restrictions
because i'm so shy and introverted and i
need extroverts to come up to me and
talk to me
um because otherwise i would talk to no
one and like i wish this was an
exaggeration but it really isn't
um so i think if everything
would go digital um i would just be a
little bit lonely here
you know on my own in this room all the
time and so then i think i would rather
go home
what's the first thing you search for in
a school or college
the library what subject are you most
looking forward to studying this year
um definitely the introductory course to
international criminal law and procedure
though unfortunately that is the one
course which will not take place
if it cannot take place face to face so
i'm really hoping this course will take
place because i'm very very interested
in it but obviously if it's not safe to
do it then we shouldn't do it
studying abroad might be expensive how
do you manage your expenses
um so i do have an expensive spreadsheet
where i just put in anything that i
spend money on and i have like
categories
just so that i can also see you know
where does most of my money go um
unfortunately most of it usually goes to
skincare and cosmetics
though my acne somehow does not
appreciate that
um so i'm feeling a bit undervalued by
my skin
but that's a different story aside from
that
my money usually goes towards food and
particularly mcdonald's
um but generally speaking this year
abroad is actually not very expensive
like in comparison to my years in
cambridge the reason for that is that
you only have to pay a percentage of
what you would pay as tuition fee in
cambridge
so technically this year is a lot
cheaper than any of the other years i've
done in uni
um so they have made this very very
affordable
as a year abroad will you be taking
exams what language
yes i will be taking exams you have to
do the exams in a course in order to get
credit for it
and um the language of the exam depends
on the language of the course so if the
course is held in german the exam will
be in german if the course is held in
english there will be an english exam
what subjects are you taking i have my
list right here so let me tell you
um i'm doing an introduction to public
law
so german public law which is
specifically for exchange students which
is really great because then
you know they understand that you've
never studied this legal system before
and that you probably have no idea which
describes me perfectly
um and there's another introductory
course for exchange students which is
about german private law
and i'm also taking that one then i'm
also doing introduction to international
criminal law and procedure but i will
only be doing that if face-to-face
teaching is possible because that course
will only take place in the face-to-face
teaching so if that's not possible then
that course will unfortunately be
crossed off my list
um and then i'm doing also sort of basic
rights
um it's called and the law of
international relations so basically
just
international law um i also did that
last year at cambridge but there are a
few different things
on the syllabus here so i think it will
be quite interesting um
and then i'm hopefully also going to do
jurisprudence but they are covering
different philosophers than we covered
at cambridge
so i think that will be really really
cool but i have yet to get my
confirmation that i'm in this class but
i'm really really hoping that i made it
into the class
how can you be so easy peasy lemon
squeezy when you're going in a new place
alone
um i'm glad that i come across that easy
peasy lemon squeezy but i'm really not
um
i'm very often quite nervous though to
be fair you know
um i have done this a few times like the
first time that i moved away on my own i
was 16 years old
and i went on a plane to hong kong on my
own
um so i have some experience you know
and going abroad and you know i've lived
in the u.s
for two months on my own when i was like
17.
um and then i moved to cambridge on my
own so
i've been abroad a few times alone and
you know i've done this entire thing of
you know moving to a new place without
knowing anybody
um so at some point you kind of like
figure out okay
you're gonna be a little bit scared but
you know you find the basics pretty fast
like a supermarket and ikea
stuff like that um but this year it's
really different because of covet
um so yeah i i am honestly
a bit nervous um and also a bit scared
you know i don't want to end up being
lonely here
um but the great thing is if it does end
up being a kind of lonely experience i
can let you just pack my bags go on a
train and go back home because my home
is not very far from here
um and that's honestly kind of
reassuring to know
are you doing uni vlogs yes i will
definitely be vlogging again
how often will you work as a research
associate per week how many hours um
okay so i'm only a research assistant um
and i work for a professor here at the
university
and i work five hours a week so 20 hours
a month
um and yeah that's pretty much it are
you afraid of this year for the pandemic
school year um yeah i mean i've already
talked about the loneliness aspect
am i also kind of scared of you know
uni's being maybe an infection hub
sure um i mean we already got a strongly
worded email because some people
through parties which are definitely in
violation of the restrictions that are
in place
here in rigginsburg um and well the
university was not happy about that
obviously
um personally i think it's absolutely
selfish and absolutely irresponsible
behavior obviously i do not participate
in that
i mean i don't go to parties even
without a pandemic
so i certainly wouldn't go to parties in
a pandemic um
but yeah i'm of course worried about
that we also already have people with
positive test results
um and yeah it's a worry
um but at the same time you know i do
what i can
to ensure that should i have it i don't
pass it on to anyone else
and i'm as careful as i can be i always
wear my mask and
you know disinfect and wash my hands all
the time
and that's pretty much all that i can do
so yeah i'm being careful but i'm of
course
worried about it and i'm very much aware
of it which is why i'm also
largely staying in my room like all the
time were you aiming to stay in germany
because of covid or did it just so
happen
uh no covet had absolutely nothing to do
with it um
i applied for this year abroad way back
in 2019
and then i had my interview in very
early 2020
and i decided to accept the place before
i had even heard of the coronavirus
so kobe had nothing to do with the
decision to go abroad
how do you feel about taking classes in
german after a long time speaking
english um i'm kind of worried about it
um just because my grammar is really
really bad in german
um you can kind of hear it sometimes
when i speak german
um like sometimes i will miss a word or
i will use the wrong articles forward
but when i write it's just really bad
because i kind of like have no idea
where the commas go
and i just misspell a lot of words but i
think that's okay because like i haven't
really used that language a lot since i
was like 16
um but i think it's hopefully gonna come
back to me
now that i will speak it more because i
mean it is my native language
so i do have some hope but yeah we'll
see our study sessions happening again
i hope you have a wonderful year um
thank you so much and
yes i am planning to do live study
sessions again but i will first have to
see what my schedule looks like
so my lectures will be starting on
november the 2nd and then i'll probably
take like a week just to see
what the schedule is like which lectures
i actually have to show up for
in person and which ones you know i just
have to watch on my computer
and based on that i will then decide
when i will do live study with me
sessions on youtube
what happens to your stuff in storage a
lot of you guys are really worried about
all the things that i put into storage
in the uk
um so this was like my moving out vlog
when i just put everything into storage
and you know
try to get a flight back home and um
yeah those things are still there
um i will be reunited with them when i
go back for my fourth year at cambridge
um but
yeah unfortunately i would probably not
be able to see them
for now um i also don't think you know
any of that stuff is worth
traveling for i think traveling is at
the moment just
something that when you don't have to do
it
just stay home um so i'm staying home
because honestly yes of course you know
i i would love to have some of the stuff
in there but
is it vital to my existence absolutely
not how is the bug
situation okay so i mentioned in my last
video that when i moved in there were
some dead insects in this room it was
just a little bit disgusting
um but you know i have cleaned it i have
disinfected pretty much any space that i
could find in this room
um so now it's fine i haven't seen any
alive or dead insects um and that
honestly
calms my nerves a lot do you think that
teachers will look at you differently
because you're on youtube
ah no i don't think so i mean
all of my teachers at cambridge knew
that i have a youtube channel and
honestly just
nobody cares um and i don't think
anybody here will care
um because like it doesn't change what i
do as a student
i guess if they would maybe find it
worrying if you know i spent so much
time on youtube and didn't do my class
work but my classwork has always been my
first priority and i think my teachers
could see that and knew that um so i
don't think it will matter at all here
would you do a fan meet up um definitely
not at the moment um simply because of
covet and um
i want everybody to stay safe um and
yeah the other thing is i'm just so
socially awkward like i'm not really
sure if it would be enjoyable
because um i'm like so weird when i meet
new people and i'm just so shy
um so yeah there's also that
how helpful was the faculty at cambridge
of the organization of your exchange
very helpful i mean they were the ones
who offered the option to go abroad
and they guided us through the entire
process and what i also found very very
kind of them was that once you normally
accept your place you know you can't
back out of it anymore
because this is a reciprocal exchange
program so
you know when you open up a spot at
cambridge because you leave for a year
then someone from your partner
university can fill that spot
so normally you can't back out of it
later but because of kobe they also gave
us an option
to later on say no we don't want to go
now obviously for me
coming here was kind of less of a risk
than you know
traveling abroad and you know going on
this entire journey because here i could
just come with a car
um so for me that wasn't really an issue
but i think that was very very kind of
them to even offer it
how does it feel to be back living in
your home country after several years
um it's weird not gonna lie um i haven't
been here
that long for a long time and
um you know things have changed since i
last like really lived here
um obviously you know things you know
such as
the political climate but um you know
also like
language kind of moves on like i still
know some you know
slang that was kind of cool back in the
day and it really isn't now
um so yeah there's there's just you know
some stuff that i have to get back into
um luckily the one thing i didn't lose
touch with was german rap because i
really like trashy german rap songs um
which is a very very bad
music taste i know i'm sorry and all my
friends have banned me from deciding on
music for events
because my music taste is positively
horrible
um at least one thing that i didn't lose
touch with
what do you find really nice about being
in your home country again
uh honestly being really close to my
family like
you know even just knowing that i could
get on a train and be home in a few
hours
that's kind of really reassuring um
because
like you know ever since i was 16 i kind
of just
was you know in a different country um
often a different continent
and you know when something happens to a
family member you won't be able to be
there
and you know everybody's lives move on
and that's normal and fine
um but sometimes you kind of feel like
you know
you can not be a part of some big
moments because
you're just so far away and now you know
you could just come over
um or every family member needs help you
know you could just come and help them
out
um and that's just really really nice to
know because it gives you a lot of like
inner peace i guess i don't really know
how to describe it but it's a
really really nice feeling and that's it
for this q a um i hope you guys enjoyed
it and thank you so much for watching
and yeah i'm looking forward to filming
some exchange student vlogs once my
classes actually start in november
and but for now i hope you guys enjoyed
this video and there will be a room tour
coming soon once everything is decorated
have a nice day bye
[Music]
you